#CThe Sons of the Sun
#Cand of the Shadows.

#CLieutenant Lope de Vega's
#Caccount of his astounding travels
#Cto the land of the Aztecs.
#P#T"Holy Christ," cried captain Cortez,
astonished by the strange rite we
beheld. We found the savages half-naked.
They were throwing balls of silver and
gold at each other. They laughed as
if demented, clearly maddened by some
heathen drug.
And yet, should one of them fail to
catch the ball thrown in his direction,
the poor devil was seized and dragged
off to be sacrificed in their temple.
#P#TAs we discovered, this frightful game
was a ritual most holy to them, and
symbolized the movement of the heavenly
bodies. The dropping of a ball foretold
a catastrophe. That is what the Aztecs
believed, in their godless ignorance.
Their countless deities could only be
appeased through endless human
sacrifices. The victim's heart, which
was still beating, lay in the hand of the
murderous priest.
#P#TThe interior of the temple was
surprisingly cool. The weight of our
armor, our exhaustion, even the burden
of our suffering ... they were all
banished by a sense of awe
that the crudely magnificent altar
instilled. In the tomb-like silence, a
deep voice chanted an incantation. The
majestic statue of the water goddess
Chalchihuitlicue seemed to throb with
vitality.
#PThis massive stone, draped in
a golden cloak and studded with precious
stones, was coming to life before our
very eyes.
#PHorror of horrors! The granite eyes of
the statue, empty of life only moments
before, were now injected with blood. We
staggered back in amazement. Dom José
was taken by a fit of convulsions. He
tried to raise up his crucifix, as if to
ward off an attack by demons. The
heathen priest laughed cruelly. The
statue's mouth cracked open in a deathly
grin, baring teeth sharpened to
dagger-points.
#PCaptain Cortez cried
"Attack!". But it was no use; we were
glued to the spot.
#P#TDespite our efforts, we were unable to
move. Our armor seemed to be bolted to
the temple floor. Our legs weakened and
we collapsed in a thunder of steel. Only
Cortez had the presence of mind to
unsheathe his dagger. He hurled it at the
cackling priest ... Four inches of the finest
Toledo steel buried itself in the
heathen's face. His blood spurted,
splashing the now lifeless idol.
We picked ourselves up with difficulty.
#P#TNever will I forget that terrible
moment. My companions, naturally enough,
told tales of devilish enchantments cast
upon our armor. Whatever the truth of
that, I could not deny that the supreme
god of the fourth universe had treated
us as mere playthings. I am convinced
that a terrible energy is yet contained
within that heathen statue; a power
strong enough to change a proud
conquistador into a helpless puppet.
#P#CDrawing of Chalchihuitlicue
#Cby Dom José De La Sierra
#Cdone before the destruction
#Cof the Aztec temple of
#CTenochtitlan.
#G3
