
#CA Brightness From Afar
#CBy Lord Boleskine
#CAn account of his celebrated
#Cvoyage to New England.
#C1824
#CAleister Publications.
#CCambridge.
#PFollowing a splendid journey, the sunny
harbor came into sight. The locals were
much impressed with one's arrival in
their midst. One had time to sketch
several of them and notice signs of
degeneracy. Some children showed one
their queer hands that would inspire
uneasiness.
#PUpon the promise of a few coins, a child
has undertaken to reveal to one a most
"prodigious phenomenon" of a natural
order. One admits to being skeptical as
to the prodigiousness of the marvel,
whatever it may be; indeed, one suspects
it to be little more than an evening
stroll to some charming wooden hut
situated in the forest hereabouts. One
will nonetheless go, for it is always
well to submit to such local enthusiasms.
#POne admits to being somewhat
flabbergasted! The Milky Way shone like
the fires of the Apocalypse from the
inky celestial vault. Certain distant
stars, normally invisible to the naked
eye, were clearly visible, glittering
indeed with a strange intensity.
The heavy clouds that had settled above
the village had no hold over that place.
#PIt would be pointless to offer here the
names of the constellations one
perceived in utter clarity; apart from
the interminable length of such a list,
one might conceivably risk being charged
with exaggeration!
#PThe cross cast its shadow on the ground.
The sea, in the distance, was dead calm.
Tonight one will return to that spot and
draw those stars. Tomorrow night, one
will at last see Halley's comet in all
its brilliance. The youngster will carry
torches. Despite one's developed sense of
direction, honed by years of travel, one
feels incapable of finding one's way
through the dark forest unaided.
#PThe drawings will, one is convinced, set
light to the souls of men!
#PSuch a moon! One lost count of the
craters, so sharply was their
definition. Loath as one is to seem
excessive in one's appraisal, one cannot
but feel that the forest clearing is
indeed a place outside the common laws
of time and space. Surely it is not an
hallucination!
#PHow strange to consider that idle
conversation, some research in the
British Museum and a voyage to this
backward village should culminate in so
astounding a discovery. It may be that
others have noticed the extraordinary
nature of that place; how else could one
explain the presence of that cross?
